Doc 306 - Migrate Query Workers content from KB to docs (#97)
Macrometacorp/docs: docs/queryworkers/running-queries.md

---
sidebar_position: 20
title: Running Queries
---

> After you [build a query](building-queries.md), you might want to run it. You might run a query to perform an action on your data (such as INSERT or DELETE), or you might test a query that you intend to save as a [Query Worker](query-workers.md).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After you [build a query](building-queries.md), you might want to run it. You might run a query to perform an action on your data (such as INSERT or DELETE), or you might test a query that you intend to save as a [query worker](query-workers.md).
```

## Run a Query

> To run a query, perform the following steps.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To run a query:
```

1. Write a [C8QL](../c8ql/) query.
2. Enter any required [bind parameter](fundamentals.md#bind-parameters) values.
3. Click **Run Query**.

> Macrometa runs the query and displays the [Query Result](#query-result) for that query. Each query you run displays another Query Result unless you navigate away from the page or clear the results.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Macrometa runs the query and displays the [query result](#query-result) for that query. Each query you run displays another result unless you navigate away from the page or clear the results.
```

Author: "Query Result" is the name of the section on the screen.

## API Endpoint

For more information, refer to [API Endpoints](api-endpoints.md).

## Execution Plan

> After you write a query, click **Execution Plan** to see a detailed breakdown of the query compilation and execution pipeline. Basically, it shows you _how_ Macrometa performs the query. The details given can be helpful when tuning or debugging complex queries.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After you write a query, click **Execution Plan** to see a detailed breakdown of how Macrometa ran the query.
```

Author: You don't need to run the query before looking at the plan.

![Execution Plan](/img/queries/execution-plan.png)

## Query Result

> Query results vary based on the query. Queries that return information display that information. Queries that do not, perhaps because they are entering or deleting information, just display empty brackets `[]`. The screenshot below shows query results with information returned.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Query results depend on the goal of the query. For example, if a query is not meant to return information, it only shows empty brackets `[]`. The following screenshot shows a query with information returned.
```

![Query Result](/img/queries/query-result.png)

### Query Profile

Click **Query Profile** to display detailed performance information about the query.

### View options

> If your query returned results, then you can display them in **Table** or **JSON** format. Default is **Table**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If your query returned results, you can display them in **Table** or **JSON** format. Default is **Table**.
```

Author: I generally use "then" when the sentence starts with "if." Helps provide guideposts in the language.

### Download results

> If your query returned results, then you can click **Download CSV** to download them as a comma-separated variable file.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If your query returned results, you can click **Download CSV** to download them as a comma-separated variable file.
```

### Clear results

> To clear a specific result, click **Clear** next to that result.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To clear a specific result, click **Clear** next to the result.
```

To clear all results, click **Clear All** under the Query Builder.

## Running Queries tab

> Click the **Running Queries** tab to see information about any queries currently running, including the bind parameters, runtime, and when the query started.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Click the **Running Queries** tab to see information about any queries currently running including the bind parameters, runtime, and when the query started.
```

![Running Queries tab](/img/queries/running-queries-tab.png)

## Slow Query History tab

> Click the **Slow Query History** tab to see information about any queries currently running, including the bind parameters, runtime, and when the query started.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Click the **Slow Query History** tab to see information about any queries currently running including the bind parameters, runtime, and when the query started.
```
